1.What is git and why we use it?
Git is a disturbuted version control system used to 
   manage source code and 
   track the files
   coordinate work among multiple developers and to
   revert the version control system

2.what is github and why we use it?
Github is a web based hosting service platform used to store our project files and sharing code b/w developers to write a code

3.what is the diff b/w git and github?
Git is a disturbuted version control system used to manage source code and track the files coordinate work among multiple developers
whereas Github is a web based hosting service platform used to store our project files

4.what is the diff b/w centralised vcs and disturbuted vcs?
               centralised vcs                                             Disturbuted vcs
	        ------------                                                -----------
	-> we cant create a copy of sourcecode                      -> we can create no.of copy and make changes 
	   directly we make changes here                               without touching sourcecode
           (because of this problem we get many issues)
                                                               
	-> sometimes server also down                               -> no serverdown 

	->ex: svn,cvs                                               -> ex: git

5.what is pre-commit hooks and post-commit hooks and web-hook?
Actions that are taken by git before commit -pre commit hook
Actions that are taken by git after commit -post commit hook
webhook is a mechanism that allows one application to automatically notifies another application when a specific event occurs like pushes,pullrequests

6.Diff b/w fetch and pull?
Fetch : it updates the latest changes from the remote repo and doesnt merge in local repo
pull : it  updates the latest changes from the remote repo and merge automatically in local repo

7.Diff b/w fetch and push?
Fetch : it updates the latest changes from the remote repo 
push : it sends the commited files into remote repo from git repo

8.Diff b/w commit and push?
commit : it records the saved files into local repo ,once the files are committed we can send it to remote repo
push : it sends the commited files into remote repo from git repo

9.Diff b/w merge and rebase?
merge : it integrates branches together and it combines the changes from one branch to another branch but here we merge the latest commits
rebase : it combines all the commit changes from one branch to another branch

10.Diff b/w merge and cherrypick?
merge : it integrates branches together and it combines the changes from one branch to another branch but here we merge the latest commits
cherrypick : it is used to combine specific committs from one branch to another branch
              ex: we had a 2 branches master and fea..we committed 2 changes in fea branch ,,then i want to merge 1 commit change into
	          master ,,then i use "git cherrypick commitid " command

11.Diff b/w git revert and git reset?
Git revert : it is used to undo the commit files by creating a newcommit id
               git revert commitid
	       git revert commitid --n0-edit (if no msg asked)
Git reset : it is used to select a headpointer for a specific commit and it removes the committed files above headpointer commit files
            the removed files that are stored in working directory
	     git reset commitid
	    we hsve soft reset and hardreset
	      soft reset: deleted files stored in staging area
	            git reset commitid --soft
              hard reset: completely deleted
	            git reset commitid --hard

12.what is git stash?
Git stash is used to save the changes temporarily and if we want the files,we use "git stash pop"..if we get this in diff branch,we use "git stash apply"

13.what is pullrequest?
pullrequest is the way to merge changes from one branch to another branch in remote repo

14.what are branches?explain.
It is a parallel version of main repo,,we can edit the code directly without touching original sourcecode..
The main/master branch is the default branch and we can create any branches for new version,bugfixes,release branch

15.How do u resolve merge conflicts in git?
Git through conflicts ,if we have a diff content in sameline,git cant merge automatically 
To resolve this conflicts,developers will have to decide which line should be there which line should not be there..
here it creates a new commit by merging..




